==========================
Backup API
==========================

Overview
========

The Backup API is an API for referencing and downloading the backup target data of |Fess|.
It allows you to retrieve a list of backup targets and download individual backup files (system properties, bulk data of each index, and NDJSON data of logs).

This API is read-only (reference and download). The restore function for uploading and restoring backup files is not provided through the API; if you need to restore, please use System Info → Backup in the admin UI.

Base URL
========

::

    /api/admin/backup

Authentication
==============

As with other Admin APIs, authentication using an access token is required. The access token must have the ``Radmin-api`` permission (configured via ``api.admin.access.permissions``; the default value is ``Radmin-api``).
Specify the access token in the request header.

::

    Authorization: Bearer <access token>

For details on authentication and how to obtain an access token, see :doc:`api-admin-overview`.

Endpoint List
=============

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 35 50

   * - Method
     - Path
     - Description
   * - GET
     - /files
     - Retrieve backup target list
   * - GET
     - /file/{id}
     - Download backup file

Retrieve Backup Target List
===========================

Returns a list of backup targets. The targets are based on the ``index.backup.targets`` and ``index.backup.log.targets`` settings, and a combined list of both is returned.

Request
-------

::

    GET /api/admin/backup/files

Response
--------

``files`` contains an array of objects representing the backup targets, and ``total`` contains the count.
Each object has ``id`` and ``name``, both of which are set to the target name (such as ``fess_config.bulk``, ``system.properties``, or ``search_log.ndjson``).

The following is an example under the default settings (when ``index.backup.targets`` and ``index.backup.log.targets`` are at their default values).

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "response": {
        "version": "15.8.0",
        "status": 0,
        "files": [
          { "id": "fess_basic_config.bulk", "name": "fess_basic_config.bulk" },
          { "id": "fess_config.bulk", "name": "fess_config.bulk" },
          { "id": "fess_user.bulk", "name": "fess_user.bulk" },
          { "id": "system.properties", "name": "system.properties" },
          { "id": "fess.json", "name": "fess.json" },
          { "id": "doc.json", "name": "doc.json" },
          { "id": "click_log.ndjson", "name": "click_log.ndjson" },
          { "id": "favorite_log.ndjson", "name": "favorite_log.ndjson" },
          { "id": "search_log.ndjson", "name": "search_log.ndjson" },
          { "id": "user_info.ndjson", "name": "user_info.ndjson" }
        ],
        "total": 10
      }
    }

.. note::

   ``version`` is set to the product version of the running |Fess|. The contents of ``files``
   vary depending on the ``index.backup.targets`` / ``index.backup.log.targets`` settings;
   the above is an example with default values.

Download Backup File
====================

Downloads the contents of the specified backup file. For ``{id}``, specify the ``id`` (target name) obtained from the target list retrieval.
Depending on the type of ``{id}``, the response content switches as follows.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - ID
     - Content
   * - ``system.properties``
     - Contents of the system properties (``application/octet-stream``)
   * - ``*.bulk`` or an index name without an extension
     - Bulk data generated by scrolling the index with the same name as the target (``application/octet-stream``). The name with ``.bulk`` removed is treated as the index name.
   * - ``*.ndjson`` (``search_log`` / ``user_info`` / ``click_log`` / ``favorite_log``)
     - NDJSON data of the corresponding log (``application/x-ndjson``)

.. note::

   ``fess.json`` and ``doc.json`` are index mapping definition (schema) files.
   They are included in the target list (``/files``), but when downloaded via this API they are
   handled as index scroll operations in the same way as ``.bulk`` files. For backup and restore
   that includes mapping definitions, use System Info → Backup in the admin UI.

If you specify an ``{id}`` that does not exist among the backup targets, an error response is returned containing a non-zero value in ``status`` and the error message ``Could not find any backup index.``.

Request
-------

::

    GET /api/admin/backup/file/{id}

Response
--------

A stream of the backup file. For NDJSON format, it is returned with ``Content-Type: application/x-ndjson``; otherwise, it is returned with ``application/octet-stream``.

.. note::

   Log (``*.ndjson``) exports are subject to the ``index.backup.log.load.timeout`` constraint
   (default ``60000`` milliseconds). If the output takes a long time, the log data may be
   truncated partway through.

Usage Examples
==============

Retrieve Backup Target List
---------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/admin/backup/files" \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"

Download Configuration Index
----------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/admin/backup/file/fess_config.bulk" \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
         -o fess_config.bulk

Download Search Log
-------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/admin/backup/file/search_log.ndjson" \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
         -o search_log.ndjson

Reference
=========

- :doc:`api-admin-overview` - Admin API Overview
- :doc:`api-admin-log` - Log API
