==========================
Backup API
==========================

Overview
========

The Backup API is an API for referencing and downloading the backup target data of |Fess|.
It allows you to retrieve a list of backup targets and download individual backup files (system properties, bulk data of each index, and NDJSON data of logs).

Base URL
========

::

    /api/admin/backup

Endpoint List
=============

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 35 50

   * - Method
     - Path
     - Description
   * - GET
     - /files
     - Retrieve backup target list
   * - GET
     - /file/{id}
     - Download backup file

Retrieve Backup Target List
===========================

Returns a list of backup targets. The targets are based on the ``index.backup.targets`` and ``index.backup.log.targets`` settings.

Request
-------

::

    GET /api/admin/backup/files

Response
--------

``files`` contains an array of objects representing the backup targets, and ``total`` contains the count.
Each object has ``id`` and ``name``, both of which are set to the target name (such as ``fess_config.bulk``, ``system.properties``, or ``search_log.ndjson``).

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "response": {
        "version": "15.7.0",
        "status": 0,
        "files": [
          {
            "id": "fess_config.bulk",
            "name": "fess_config.bulk"
          },
          {
            "id": "system.properties",
            "name": "system.properties"
          },
          {
            "id": "search_log.ndjson",
            "name": "search_log.ndjson"
          }
        ],
        "total": 3
      }
    }

Download Backup File
====================

Downloads the contents of the specified backup file. For ``{id}``, specify the ``id`` (target name) obtained from the target list retrieval.
Depending on the type of ``{id}``, the response content switches as follows.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - ID
     - Content
   * - ``system.properties``
     - Contents of the system properties
   * - ``*.bulk`` or an index name without the ``.bulk`` extension
     - Bulk data generated by scrolling the target index
   * - ``*.ndjson`` (``search_log`` / ``user_info`` / ``click_log`` / ``favorite_log``)
     - NDJSON data of the corresponding log

If you specify an ``{id}`` that does not exist among the backup targets, an error occurs.

Request
-------

::

    GET /api/admin/backup/file/{id}

Response
--------

A stream of the backup file. For NDJSON format, it is returned with ``Content-Type: application/x-ndjson``; otherwise, it is returned with ``application/octet-stream``.

Usage Examples
==============

Retrieve Backup Target List
---------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/admin/backup/files" \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"

Download Configuration Index
----------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/admin/backup/file/fess_config.bulk" \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
         -o fess_config.bulk

Download Search Log
-------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/admin/backup/file/search_log.ndjson" \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
         -o search_log.ndjson

Reference
=========

- :doc:`api-admin-overview` - Admin API Overview
- :doc:`api-admin-log` - Log API
